[TOC]

# Overview

Basically politics is how people get along with each other at national
level.

**Politics** is the practice and theory of influencing other people.
More narrowly, it refers to achieving and exercising positions of
governance — organized control over a human community, particularly a
state. Furthermore, politics is the study or practice of the
distribution of power and resources within a given community (a usually
hierarchically organized population) as well as the interrelationship(s)
between communities.

# Governing goals

## Reduce Inequality

The disparity between people who have the most and the least income is
growing, mirrored by disparities in education, health, and family
structure. You want to narrow the widening gaps in incomes and
well-being at the top and the bottom.

## Fight Climate Change

You want to use government policies to promote a cleaner, healthier
environment, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and avoid the damage that
global climate change could cause.

## Strengthen Social Safety Net

You believe it’s important for the federal government to give a hand up
to those in poverty and protect those at risk of falling down the income
ladder when times are tough. You want to expand and protect programs
that protect the vulnerable.

## Tax Cutter

You believe lower taxes will boost economic growth and want to allow
Americans to keep more of what they earn. Your goal is to substantially
reduce federal tax revenues as a share of the economy. (To reach fiscal
sustainability, you’ll have to cut spending, too.)

## Shrink Government

You believe that we’re better off with a leaner federal government,
shifting responsibilities to the private, non-profit and state and local
sectors. Spending on general government operations and federal programs
(other than health and retirement benefits) is projected under current
policy to decline over the next decade. You’d reduce it more.

## Protect the Elderly

Under current policy, about 60% of the increase in federal spending over
the next decade will go to Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid and other
major health programs, much of that for the growing number of people who
will be over age 65. You want to protect benefits for senior citizens.

## Invest in the Future

You believe in planting seeds today that will be harvested in years to
come. You want policies to increase, above what’s currently projected,
government and private investment in children and young adults and in
education, infrastructure and research that will pay off in the future.
(To reach fiscal sustainability, you’ll have to pay for these somehow).

# References
1. [Wikipedia - Democracy][1]

[1]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Democracy "Wikipedia - Democracy"
