[TOC]

# Overview

# The article “Culture Shock” is about people who move from their countries to live in another country and go through different experiences learning the new language and culture of the new country. Do you agree or disagree with the article? Do you recognize some of the experiences in your own life?
In the article “Culture Shock” the author wrote about people who have been suddenly transplanted abroad, but my own experience of immigration very different with that situation. In my situation I knew I would immigrate to a new country, so I had a plan to prepare for that. I also knew some people who have had experience with suddenly transplanted abroad because of war. With those experiences I agree with some points but also disagree with several points in the article. First of all, I disagree with the reaction of people stated in the first and second stage of adjustment in new cultural environment were described in the article. From my own experience with people who had to suddenly relocated abroad because of war; they had had a feeling of anxiety and worry about their future when they have been suddenly immigrated to a new country, but they didn't reject the environment or get together to grouse about the host country and its people. Instead of banding together and criticized the host country, they worked hard for their future. Maybe they had had experience of terrible war, so they understood meaning of peace and appreciate what they already had. Although disagree with those points above, I also agree with the third and fourth stage of adjustment in new cultural environment. I saw myself in the third stage. Before I came to U.S. I had been studying English for a long time. When I came to U.S. I had a big support from my family who had been living here for over three years. Furthermore, I had a good new friend, who have been helping me learning English, American's culture and how to drive a car since I came here. All of those things helped my adjustment in new cultural environment much more easier. After the third stage is the final stage which wrote about when the visitor accepts the customs of the country as just another way of living, they completely adjust in new cultural environment. Most of people who I have known suddenly transplanted abroad have achieved this stage, now they consider this country like their second home. Now I'm on my way to achieve this stage and I see a bright future for me in this country.

# In your opinion, what are the most important qualities of a good friend?
In my life I have had many friends, but only a few are my good friends who I can talk to, depend on and enjoy. From time to time they have helped me overcome many problems and difficult time. We grew up together in a small village. When we were children, we only thought about how to have fun and play whole day. Catching fish, flying a kite and play soccer on natural grass fields were most beautiful childhood memories for me. During schooldays time, whenever I needed someone to talk and share my problems, I always met my good friends and shared my problems. Most of the time they listened to me and gave me many valuable advice. They have helped me feel much better and stronger. Furthermore, they were also a good choice to share my mistakes, because they supported me fix it and especially they didn't judge me by mistakes which I have done. When I stayed with them I felt myself is respected, they didn't tell me must do this or must do that. They respected my own characteristic, they didn't want to change or judge me, they only give advice and encourage me live a good life. We have helped each other becoming a good man and much happier. We usually met together every week to talk or went to some natural settings for camping. Every time like that have helped me enjoying life and relaxing. I remember one time five years ago, I got sick and went to the hospital for one week. That time was really difficult for me to overcome, but luckily, I have had my good friends. They went to hospital to talk and stay with me as long as possible, that friendship has helped me overcome the difficult time. I have come to U.S. for five months, so now I can not meet them often and enjoy do things with them anymore, but I keep video call them once a month to keep in touch and share my new experiences in new country. From my experiences I think a good friend is somebody to talk to, someone to depend on and someone to enjoy.
