[TOC]

# Overview

`Intellectual property (IP) rights` are the legally recognized
*exclusive rights* to creations of the mind. Under intellectual property
law, owners are granted certain exclusive rights to a variety of
*intangible assets*, such as `musical, literary, and artistic works;
discoveries and inventions; and words, phrases, symbols, and designs`.
Common types of intellectual property rights include `copyright,
trademarks, patents, industrial design rights, trade dress,` and in some
jurisdictions `trade secrets`.

## Types

### Patents

A patent grants an *inventor* the right to exclude others from making,
using, selling, offering to sell, and importing an invention for a
limited period of time, in exchange for the public disclosure of the
invention. An *invention* is a solution to a specific technological
problem, which may be a product or a process.

If not authorization, you cannot follow process is patented. With
copyright, you can follow process but not modify or something else if
not have right license.

### Trademark

A trademark is a recognizable sign, design or expression which
distinguishes products or services of a particular trader from the
similar products or services of other traders.

### Copyright

A copyright gives the creator of an original work *exclusive rights* to
it, usually for a limited time. Copyright may apply to a wide range of
creative, intellectual, or artistic forms, or "works". Copyright does
not cover ideas and information themselves, only the form or manner in
which they are expressed.

### Copyleft


## Public Domain

Works in the public domain are those whose intellectual property rights
have expired, have been forfeited, or are inapplicable. `"many things
that cannot be privately owned"`, derivative works without permission
from the copyright owner.
