# Technology: The Good and the Bad

Our world today is changing fast due to the introduction and upgrading of technology. Most people say technology has brought positive results because of the improving our lives. However, there are people who are concerned about the negative side of technology. In my opinion, the awareness of both sides is necessary to become a smart technological user.

The first positive of technology is the benefits in education. Not only are there improvements in problem solving skills, motivation, and reading comprehension but technology makes learning fun and easier. I could see the benefits of technology when I saw my nieces play math games without boring. They learned how to do math through these games. My study is easier with technology; I can find almost any academic material or answer to a research question on Internet. Not only is it easy and simple to use, it is also inexpensive. The downside to all this information available on the Internet is that much of it is not accurate. Wikipedia, for example, allows anyone to add information on a topic; one does not have to be an expert or undergo any fact-checking to make an entry. Therefore, I always evaluate all the information before I use that for my research.

An area that has seen a huge increase in performance due to technology is in the health care field. Technology has allowed us to improve in patient diagnosis, monitoring, and overall health. I have had a few chance to go the emergency room of a hospital. I could remember many worry and sadness faces in the crowed environment. The rooms were filled with high tech equipment and I thought technology has saved many people's lives by this way.

On the other hand, technology also makes younger generation has become dependent on technology and because of that is becoming more and more lazier. With online bill-paying and grocery shopping made easy by the Internet, there are no longer many reasons for me to leave my house to go shopping. Many people use credit cards on a daily basis simply because it's easy. Whether they don't have time to go to an ARM or the line is moving quickly and money will take time to count, people seem to rely on credit cards. However, they can also end up in severe debt because of that dependence. Technology has become so advanced that people no longer need to get out of the house and mingle to find a date or even a spouse. With online matchmaking Web sites like eHarmony.com and match.com, people can find the perfect mate by spilling our their passions, hobbies, political views and once again, their credit card numbers - because describing oneself to someone else online isn't free. Hence, people should go out and meet others in real life, not virtual reality or via an instant message. Continuous use of technology can cause dependence. Many my friends joke that they are addicted to Facebook. But is it really a joke? Many seem to check Facebook every ten minutes. That sounds like an actual addiction.
