[TOC]

# Overview
First week of college. Due February 11th, 2016

# When you want to relax, what do you do? Explain with examples and details.
Every time I feel stressed or anxious I like to do something to relax. The perfect relaxing method for me is running or hiking in a beautiful natural setting with my close friends. Nature, fresh air and beautiful views make my mind, my body and my soul feel relaxed. I was born in Lang Chuon, a small village in rural, Vietnam. I grew up close to fish, shrimp, crab, water buffalo, many rivers, and rice fields. Nature was a part of my childhood, it helps me feel like I've returned to my origin. My close friends and I share the same feeling about nature, we grew up together and experienced much together.Sharing with my close friends makes my life more enjoyable.

I can not always have the perfect relaxing time I describe above, therefore, I need to choose a different way to relax, that's not perfect way but good enough. Music and books are my "tools". I can find a quiet place, sit down, listen to my favorite music, and start reading one of my favorite books. Music by itself has a magical power. It makes me feel relaxed and peaceful. One of my favorite songs is "May It Be", which is a theme song of "The Lord of The Ring: The Fellowship of the Ring" movie. One of my favorite books is "The Alchemist", which is a story about a young shepherd named Santiago and his journey to Egypt, after his recurring dream of finding treasure there. The melody and story make me forget my stress and make my day better.

Finally, if I can't do any of the above, I can choose a funny animated movie to watch by myself or with my close friends. Watching movies is one of my hobbies, and a funny animated movie is my favorite kind of movie. This kind of movie make me laugh and relax my mind.

# After reading the article "How to Be a Successful Language Learner," what new ideas about language did you find? Explain them with examples details.
After reading the article "How to Be a Successful Language Learner", I like the self-concept and the practice ideas the most. They best reflect my experience in learning a language. When I began learning English, I felt very anxious and uncomfortable every time because I feared making mistakes. A bad self-concept would grow up inside me. I defined myself as a bad learner, and would lose my confidence and excitement about learning English. I didn't want to use it and avoided using it as much as possible. It was like a circle, from time to time my English skills seemed worse reducing my self-concept. These situations truly inhibited my learning. My language learning process seemed very slow until I went to college. The college environment helped me change my self-concept. I met more native speakers and more English learners; they were a good inspiration. I became more confident and liked using English more. My new self-concept facilitated my learning much more. With new friends, new environment and improved self-concept I had more energy to practice English every day. I set up a plan for practicing listening and reading to build new learning habits. To practice listening I watched a movie or a video in English with subtitles. Fictional movies and TED videos were my choices. Fiction movies always excite me; I'm a dreamer, I like science but also like the ideas outside mainstream science. Many ideas from science fiction movies are becoming realities, such as artificial intelligence and robotics. I have the same feeling about TED videos. Every video is a journey exploring a new awesome person with a beautiful story, which give me knowledge about the world, people and society. I can watch these videos all day without getting bored. To practice reading I chose reading books. Reading has long been one of my hobbies. To start English books I chose children books because they are easy to understand and have simple sentence structure. If I get bored, I read information technology books because I like them and they give me more knowledge about computer science, which is my major. Now I think my English skills are better than ever before. Everything has changed because I changed my self-concept and keep practicing every day.
