The Terminal, Viktor Navorski and Frank Dixon
Last week, I had a chance to watch a movie in the ESL class. The title was “The Terminal”. The movie was a story about Viktor Navorski, a man trapped in John F. Kennedy international airport, he could not set a foot on U.S. and could not go back to his country because of a political crisis. Frank Dixon, who was the head of Homeland Security, told Viktor was free to remain in the international transit lounge, but forbidden to step a foot on American soil. Dixon considered Viktor like a bureaucratic glitch, a problem he could not control but wanted desperately to erase. The movie marked Viktor as a passive protagonist, a simple soul powerless againsted large antagonistic forces, which were Dixon and bureaucracy.
No matter where he was, Viktor maintains a high standard of morality and compassion. Even when he was invited by Dixon to break the law by sneaking out the sliding glass doors that lead to New York, Viktor refused to break rules and waited at the transit lounge until he could go to New York legally. Another time, Dixon tried to convince Viktor claim asylum by saying that he’s afraid to return to Krakosia, and he could be admitted into New York. But Viktor would not lie to get what he wants. At last time, Dixon offered a visa for Viktor if Viktor helped him remove the medicine of a Russian traveller was carrying for his dying father, but Viktor found a point in the security system that will allow the traveller to return home with the medicine. He didn’t betray the traveller to get what he wants.
On the other hand, Dixon was a selfish man. When he knew the situation of Viktor, he only wanted to get rid of Viktor. Therefore, he tried to convince Viktor break rules. When Viktor denied breaking rules, he cut him off from an avenue of money. Even when the war in Krakosia ended, which meant Viktor could enter New York. But Dixon forced Viktor must abandon his goal of entering New York and return immediately to Krakosia, or else Dixon would punish all of the friends he had made in the terminal.
Another difference between Viktor and Dixon was the way they get along with people. With morality and compassion, Viktor was easy to get along with people around him, such as Amelia the flight attendant, who was having a relationship with a married man and found she could open her heart to this strange, simple man. And Gupta the janitor, who left the floor wet and watched as passengers ignored the little yellow warning pyramids and slipped and fell. And a food service employee, who was in love with an official in the airport. These friends and others have secret social lives in the terminal, feasting on airline food, playing poker. Viktor became their hero when he helped the Russian man kept the medicine for his dying father. On the other hand, everyone didn’t follow Dixon’s demand to stop Viktor went to New York in the end.
At last, Viktor finished his promise and was going home. And I think Dixon also learned something from Viktor. The morality and compassion.
