# Last journal
In the next two weeks, the spring semester will finish. This semester was very interesting, inspirational and full of ideas and theories. I have learned many valuable lessons from ESL class, and I believe these lessons will help my study easier in the future.
Before the ESL class, I didn't know how the writing process and the paragraph or essay structure, but in the ESL class I have studied and practiced them by writing two journals every week. Each journal I tried to follow the writing process; I discovered subjects by brainstorming, free-writing, and questioning; I created the topic sentence and develop it by supporting ideas; I put all the pieces together; finally, I reviewed and rewrote my journal. I always made sure my journal had a good topic sentence with controlling ideas and concluding sentences. Furthermore, I also check the unity and coherence of my journals through read out loud them a few times. All of these knowledge I have learned in the ESL class, and it has helped me wrote good paragraphs. Recently, I have studied about the structure of essay, and I have learned how to use a group of paragraphs to develop one main idea. I was very excited about the new written style.
From time to time, I have surprised by my improvement in writing. Only one years ago, I couldn't write an English paragraph over ten sentences, but now I can write an essay with at least five paragraphs. It is a big improvement to me. And this improvement was a result of continuous practicing and studying. Every journal I wrote, every class I attended has helped me achieve this result. The grammar and sentence structure mistakes were my best teachers. When I received my journals back, I would have read them and ask myself: "Why do I make these mistakes?" If I couldn't answer this question, I would ask my teacher or my friends. With their help, I realized the reasons, and I would pay more attention in next times. I could see my written skills changing day by day. That really made me happy, and it was a big motivation for me to keep studying.
Although my written skills were improved, but I still made mistakes in my written articles. Most of them had relation to verbs. First kind of mistake was missing verbs. at the beginning of semester, I usually wrote a sentence without verbs. I think this is a severe mistake because I have broken the basic sentence structure. And these sentences have no meaning without verbs. So I had tried to ask myself: "Does this sentence have verbs?" before I wrote any sentence. The second kind of mistake was using wrong verb tenses. I remembered when I started to study English, the verb tenses system was a nightmare for me. I was very confused about using them at right places. Furthermore, when I changed the tense I usually forgot change the verb form. For example, I need to add "ed" or use irregular verbs when I use them in past tenses. These kind of mistake are only a few cases in my mistakes; I also have some common mistakes such as: using wrong articles, using wrong punctuation or translating my language to English and making it difficult to understand. I believe I can correct these mistakes by practicing writing and learning through my mistakes.
Fortunately, the ESL class had a perfect solution to help me improve myself and correct my mistakes. That is writing two journals every week. Indeed, this way has helped me, improve my writing very much. When I wrote journals, I needed to read many articles to get ideas, so this was a good chance to improve my vocabulary, sentence structure from these articles. Moreover, when I put all these ideas together and started to write, I felt like I was doing an awesome things. I felt like all my written skills and knowledge about writing were becoming a real thing, which was my journals. After finishing the journal, I was very happy and satisfied with my hard works. But most important part was when I got my writing back from my teacher. I started to look at the corrections carefully, and I would ask my teacher what I couldn't understand. Corrections were very priceless for me, they helped me remember the right way of writing, and they were references when I wrote other journals. I was understanding the language better through each journal. I think writing journals was the good way to improve my writing.
The knowledge and experiences in the ESL class was very important to me. The course has given me a lot of base knowledge in writing. I believe this solid base will help me develop good written skills in the future. The base knowledge unlike technology, it doesn't obsolete, and it always true whenever we use it and wherever we use it. I think with them the journey of writing will easier and effortless. I need to keep my written routines by daily or weekly journals and reading habits. My teacher said: "Good writes do more reading, and good writes do more writing." And I believe it's true.

