[TOC]

# Overview

Physics terminology


# Mechanics
## Distance

Distance is a scalar quantity that refers to "how much ground an object
has covered" during its motion.

## Displacement

Displacement is a vector quantity that refers to "how far out of place
an object is"; it is the object's overall **change in position**.

## Speed

Speed is a rate of change of distance with time interval. It's a scalar
quantity that refers to "how fast an object is moving."

## Velocity

Velocity is a vector quantity that refers to "the rate of change of
position with respect to time interval." It mean velocity is speed value
combine with direction.

## Average velocity

Average velocity = change in position (displacement) / length of time
interval.

## Instantaneous velocity

Instantaneous velocity is velocity of an object at a particular time. To
estimate the instantaneous velocity at a particular time we can compute
average velocity with time interval shrink to zero.

## Acceleration

Acceleration is a vector quantity that is defined as the rate at which
an object changes its velocity. An object is accelerating if it is
changing its velocity.

## Momentum

- Linear momentum (động lượng)
- Impulse (xung lượng)
- Angular momentum (mô men động lượng)
- Rotational inertia (mô men quán tính)
- Torque (mô men lực)


# Electromagnetism

## Electron

The electron is a subatomic particle with a negative elementary electric
charge.

## Electron Hole

In physics, chemistry, and electronic engineering, an electron hole
(often simply called a hole) is the lack of an electron at a position
where one could exist in an atom or atomic lattice.
- This is an abstract concept: the vacancy of an electron at a position.

## Ion

An ion is an atom, or a molecule, in which the total number of electrons
is not equal to the total number of protons, giving the atom or molecule
a net positive or negative electrical charge.
- An atom, or molecule, with a net positive charge is a cation /ˈkætaɪən/.
- An atom, or molecule, with a net negative charge is an anion /ˈænaɪən/.

## Electrolyte

An electrolyte is a substance that produces an electrically conducting
solution when dissolved in a polar solvent, such as water.
- The dissolved electrolyte separates into cations and anions, which
  disperse uniformly through the solvent.
- Electrically, such a solution is neutral. If an electric potential is
  applied to such a solution, the cations of the solution are drawn to
  the electrode that has an abundance of electrons, while the anions are
  drawn to the electrode that has a deficit of electrons.
- The movement of cations and anions in opposite directions within the
  solution amounts to a current.
- This includes most soluble salts, acids, and bases.

## Conductor

In physics and electrical engineering, a conductor is an object or type
of material that allows the flow of an electrical current in one or more
directions.
- Materials made of metal are common electrical conductors.
- Electrical current is generated by the flow of negatively charged
  electrons, positively charged holes, and positive or negative ions in
  some cases.

### Perfect conductor

A perfect conductor is an idealized material exhibiting infinite
electrical conductivity or equivalently zero resistivity.
- While perfect electrical conductors do not exist in nature, the
  concept is a useful model when electrical resistance is negligible
  compare to other effects.
- One example is ideal magnetohydrodynamics, the study of perfectly
  conductive fluids.
- another example is electrical circuit diagrams, which carry the
  implicit assumption that the wires connecting the components have no
  resistance.

### Semiconductor

A semiconductor material has an electrical conductivity value falling
between that of a conductor, such as copper, and an insulator, such as
glass.
- Their resistance decreases as their temperature increases.
- Silicon, germanium, and compounds of gallium are the most widely used
  in electronic devices.

#### p-n junction

A p-n junction is a boundary or interface between two types of
semiconductor material, p-type and n-type, inside a single crystal of
semiconductor.
- The "p" (positive) side contains an excess of holes, while the "n"
  (negative) side contains an excess of electrons.
- p-n junctions are elementary "building blocks" of most semiconductor
  electronic devices such as diodes, transistors, solar cells, LEDs, and
  integrated circuits

### Superconductivity

Superconductivity is a phenomenon of exactly zero electrical resistance
and expulsion of magnetic flux field occurring in certain materials,
called superconductors, when cooled below a characteristic critical
temperature.
- Like ferromagnetism and atomic spectral lines, superconductivity is a
  quantum mechanical phenomenon.
- It is characterized by the Meissner effect, the complete ejection of
  magnetic field lines from the interior of the superconductor as it
  transitions into the superconducting state.
- The occurrence of the Meissner effect indicates that superconductivity
  cannot be understood as the idealization of perfect conductivity in
  classical physics.

#### Meissner effect

The Meissner effect is the expulsion of a magnetic field from a
superconductor during its transition to the superconducting state.


## Electrode

An electrode is an electrical conductor used to make contact with a
nonmetallic part of a circuit (e.g. a semiconductor, an electrolyte, a
vacuum or air).

### Cathode

A cathode is the electrode from which a conventional current leaves a
polarized electrical device.
- A conventional current describes the direction in which positive
  electronic charges move.
- Electrons have a negative charge, so the movement of electron is
  opposite to the conventional current flow.

### Anode

An anode is an electrode through which conventional current flows into a
polarized electrical device.
- The direction of conventional electric current is opposite to the
  direction of electron flow.

## Insulator

An electrical insulator is a material whose internal electric charges do
not flow freely; very little electric current will flow through it under
the influence of an electric field.

## Dielectric

A dielectric (or dielectric material) is an electrical insulator that
can be polarized by an applied electric field.
- When a dielectric is placed in an electric field, electric charges do
  not flow through the material as they do in a electrical conductor,
  but only slightly shift from their average equilibrium positions
  causing dielectric polarization.

## Switch

In electrical engineering, a switch is an electrical component that can
"make" or "break" an electrical circuit, interrupting the current or
diverting it from one conductor to another.
- The mechanism of a switch removes or restores the conducting path in a
  circuit when it is operated.
- It may be operated manually, for example, a light switch or a keyboard
  button, may be operated by a moving object such as a door, pressure,
  temperature, flow, or electrics such as relays.

## Relay

A relay is an electrically operated switch. Many relays use an
electromagnet to mechanically operate a switch, but other operating
principles are also used, such as solid-state relays.
- Relays are used where it is necessary to control a circuit by a
  separate low-power signal, or where several circuits must be
  controlled by one signal.
- The first relays were used in long distance telegraph circuits as
  amplifiers: they repeated the signal coming in from one circuit and
  re-transmitted it on another circuit.

## Diode

A diode is a two-terminal electronic component that conducts primarily
in one direction (asymmetric conductance); it has low (ideally zero)
resistance to the current in one direction, and high (ideally infinite)
resistance in the other.
- A semiconductor diode, the most common type today, is a crystalline
  piece of semiconductor material with a p-n junction connected to two
  electrical terminals.
- Semiconductor diodes were the first semiconductor electronic devices.
- A vacuum tube diode has two electrodes, a plate (anode) and a heated
  cathode.

## Triode

A triode is an electronic amplifying vacuum tube (or valve in British
English) consisting of three electrodes inside an evacuated glass
envelope: a heated filament or cathode, a grid, and a plate (anode).
- A triode added a grid electrode to the thermionic diode.
- The triode was the first practical electronic amplifier.
- Its invention founded the electronics age, making possible amplified
  radio technology and long-distance telephony.
- Triodes were widely used in consumer electronics devices such as
  radios and televisions until the 1970s, when transistors replaced
  them.
- Today, their main remaining use is in high-power radio frequency
  amplifiers in radio transmitters and industrial radio frequency
  heating devices.

## Transistor

A transistor is a semiconductor device used to amplify or switch
electronic signals and electrical power.
- It consists of semiconductor material usually with at least three
  terminals for connection to an external circuit.
- A voltage or current applied to one pair of the transistor's terminals
  controls the current through another pair of terminals.
- Because the controlled (output) power can be higher than the
  controlling (input) power, a transistor can amplify a signal.
  (Amplifier)
- Alternatively, the transistor can be used to turn current on or off in
  a circuit as an electrically controlled switch, where the amount of
  current is determined by other circuit elements. (Switch)
- Today, some transistors are packaged individually, but many more are
  found embedded in integrated circuits.
- The transistor is the fundamental building block of modern electronic
  devices, and is ubiquitous in modern electronic systems.

